FIRST INNINGS South Africa 418 England 356 SECOND INNINGS South Africa 301/7 declared England 228/9 Result: draw As draws go this first Test must rank as one of the best in the near 130-year history of the game. At tea on Sunday, South African-born pair Kevin Pietersen and Jonathan Trott looked about as secure as any two batsmen had throughout the match on a pitch that played as active a part in the drama as any of the 22 players. The game appeared to be heading nowhere else but for a draw, and there were even some hopeless optimists thinking England might win. Along came Friedel de Wet with the second new ball and a game that had twisted and turned from even an hour before a ball had been bowled on Wednesday, lurched viciously and dramatically once more. De Wet a surprise pick in an extended squad and then an 11th hour call-up into the starting team after Dale Steyn couldn't shake off the hamstring injury that had been ailing him since the one-day series, bowled himself into the ground in a magnificent final spell and possibly into retaining his place for the second Test starting in Durban on Saturday. The Lions quick often topped the 140km/h as he destroyed the middle and virtually all of England's lower order claiming 3/11 from seven overs with a spell that required none of the pitch's customary trickery. England's problems had started much earlier in that final session and Pietersen was very much to blame for them. Having batted with extraordinary care and precision after the dismissal of night-watchman Jimmy Anderson and opener Alistair Cook in the morning, Pietersen attempted what is euphemistically described as a suicidal single. He and Trott had shared what appeared to be a match-saving partnership of 145 for the fourth wicket, having blunted everything Graeme Smith and the South African attack could throw at them before lunch and then through the afternoon. But having shown wonderful application and diligence for over three hours 'KP' was overcome by a fog of madness by pushing one out on the off-side within reach of the bowler De Wet and then setting off for a single completely ignoring Trott's anguished shout of 'No!' - De Wet comfortably removed the bails, and the energy returned to South Africa's legs. England captain Andrew Strauss nevertheless praised the 'outstanding' partnership between Pietersen and Trott saying: "KP (Pietersen) and Jonathan made it look easy," Strauss said. The new ball and De Wet then caused mayhem. It would be mischievous to suggest he and Makhaya Ntini were involved in an in game trial for a starting spot in the second Test with Steyn expected to be fit, but if that was the case De Wet would have won hands down even if he didn't so maniacally influence events in that final hour. De Wet was by some distance South Africa's best bowler on Sunday and it speaks volumes for the stamina that so impressed selection convener Mike Procter, that he could return for a final spell and bowl with such effervescence. Trott fell to a snorter - and a brilliant catch at third slip by De Villiers - while Bell and Prior were unsettled by his pace. In hindsight one could question why Smith didn't give him the final over but that would be churlish. The South African captain's instincts had served him well all day, whether it was starting with De Wet in the morning - and seeing him remove Anderson - or bringing on Harris for one over in that final hour which brought Broad's wicket and even handing De Wet the second new ball as part of a "last-throw-of-the-dice" exercise. Paul Collingwood's titanium-like toughness again served the tourists well as he kept everything out for over two and a half hours. His 19-ball survival stand with Graeme Onions was eerily similar to the final day stand in the first Ashes Test at Cardiff earlier this year. England used that as a springboard to success for the rest of that series. However, Steyn will strengthen South Africa's ranks in Durban, so there may be longer odds on a similar outcome for this series.   The SA squad for the second and third Tests is: Graeme Smith (captain), Ashwell Prince, Hashim Amla, Jacques Kallis, AB de Villiers, JP Duminy, Mark Boucher, Morne Morkel, Paul Harris, Dale Steyn, Makhaya Ntini, Friedel de Wet, Ryan McLaren and Alviro Petersen. Scoreboard South Africa first innings 418 England first innings 356 South Africa second innings 301/7 declared England second innings A Strauss c Boucher b Morkel 1 A Cook c Smith b Harris 12 J Anderson c Boucher b De Wet 10 J Trott c De Villiers b De Wet 69 K Pietersen run out (De Wet) 81 P Collingwood not out 26 I Bell c Boucher b De Wet 2 M Prior c Boucher b De Wet 0 S Broad c Boucher b Harris 0 G Swann lbw b Morkel 2 G Onions not out1 Extras (10b, 3lb, 11nb) 24 Total (for nine) 228 Fall of wickets: 1/5, 2/16, 3/27, 4/172, 5/205, 6/207, 7/208, 8/209, 9/218 Bowling: Ntini 18-7-41-0 (nb-1); Morkel 18-3-46-2 (nb-7); Harris 26-11-51-2; De Wet 23-8-55-4 (nb-3); Duminy 8-2-17-0; Kallis 3-1-5-0 Result: match drawn.