By Craig McKune Fifa's sponsors are being offered the face of Table Mountain for their 2010 branding, despite assurances by park managers that this is not an option. For just R150 000 a month, according to City of Cape Town documents, the World Heritage Site was a "confirmed and available" advertising site where a brand's colours could illuminate its surface using existing and additional lights. The documents, which outlined the city's "2010 host city decoration and signage master plan" and signage opportunities, were sent to Fifa's sponsors and included an image depicting the mountain illuminated by seven coloured beams. A caption below the image stated: "There are lights in place and more could be added. A set of mon-colour lenses can be applied with the colour being representative of a brand and by association the mountain could become an outdoor medium. "Note: SANParks has agreed to the use of lenses based on a schedule of hours which they must approve." But acting park manager Gary de Kock said yesterday: "There's nothing that has been formally agreed, and we have reconfirmed with the city that we are not going to have Table Mountain branded in any way." Table Mountain National Park's Andre Kearns said no projections against the mountain were allowed as they would devalue the mountain as a natural wonder. According to the city's 2001 outdoor and advertising and signage by-law, an advertisement was "any representation of a word, name, letter, figure or object... or any symbol or any light not intended solely for illumination". The decoration and signage master plan is a requirement in terms of Cape Town's host city agreement with Fifa. Its conception was recently challenged by Blackboard Media, Tractor Outdoor and CK Outdoor Advertising, which sought to interdict the city from implementing the plan. Their application was denied by Judge Bertram Fourie on Friday. He ruled that  Fifa and the local organising committee would need to have been joined as parties, as their contractual relationship with the City of Cape Town could have been prejudiced. Judge Fourie also found that the challenge reflected content materially different from the city's actual master plan.  craig.mckune@inl.co.za 